{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red234\green255\blue219;\red92\green175\blue39;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10760\viewh11120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 satra\cf0 \cb1 's setup follows\'a0behzadi et al., 2007\'a0(in our articles/CompCor_fmri_2007.pdf)'s\'a0component correlation method. \'a0according to \cf2 \cb3 satra\cf0 \cb1 :\
\
"they essentially select noisy voxels and do a pca on it\
select the top few components and regress them out from the data"\
\
Physiological sources of noise primarily include cardiac pulsations and respiratory-induced modulations of the main magnetic field. Additional sources include blood flow changes coupled to end-tidal C02 and vasomotion occurring at 0.1 Hz (Hu et al. 1995; Dagli et al. 1999; Glover et al. 2000a).\
\
yeo, 2010:\
Several sources of spurious or regionally nonspecific variance then were removed by regression of nuisance variables including: six parameter rigid body head motion (obtained from motion correction), the signal averaged over the whole-brain, the signal averaged over the lateral ventricles, and the signal averaged over a region centered in the deep cerebral white matter. Temporally- shifted versions of these waveforms also were removed by inclusion of the first temporal derivatives (computed by backward differences) in the linear model. This regression procedure removes variance unlikely to represent regionally specific corre- lations of neuronal origin. Of note, the global (whole-brain) signal correlates with respiration-induced fMRI signal fluctuations [47,73,74]. By removing global signal, variance contributed by physiological artifacts is minimized. Removal of signals correlated with ventricles and white matter further reduces non-neuronal contributions to BOLD correlations. Removal of global signal also causes a shift in the distribution of correlation coefficients such that there are approximately equal numbers of positive and negative correlations making interpretation of the sign of the correlation ambiguous [47,75,76]. This effect is not directly relevant to the current analyses as degree connectivity is computed based on the correlations that exceed a positive threshold. Finally, for computational efficiency, we down sampled the data to 4 mm isotropic voxels.}